---
layout: post
title: Why I'm Interested in MLOps (Part 2)
date: 2022-03-04 12:40:52
description: 
tags: AI MLOps ENG
categories: MLOps
---
Why I'm Interested in MLOps (Part 2)

Now, I'd like to share my perspective not as an individual but as a practitioner belonging to an organization. Ever since I first encountered MLOps, I've had one lingering question: "While there are plenty of successful case studies on the implementation of MLOps, why are successful utilization cases so rare?"

As mentioned earlier, I don't have direct involvement in MLOps. However, through (1) consistent study of MLOps-related best practices abroad, (2) collaboration with the Google Cloud AI team, allowing me to understand GCP's MLOps strategy, and (3) witnessing failures in the field of analytics consulting, I want to analyze this phenomenon from a slightly different perspective than traditional MLOps experts.

To cut to the chase, from observing various cases, it's often difficult to find a clear answer as to "why" MLOps is ultimately being implemented. There were many instances where MLOps was pursued for seemingly "ancillary goals." For example, because others are doing it, because GPU model resource utilization is easy, because deployment is easy, because versioning is possible, and so on. These relatively low-difficulty and comfortable ancillary goals often lead to a side effect... The fundamental goal of MLOps is set around technology-centric, fragmented topics, resulting in excellent backend experts with "limited" ML experience and capabilities often taking the lead.

In reality, an excellent MLOps implementation lead requires skills surpassing those of a unicorn full-stack developer when viewed from a development perspective. They must have a solid foundation in backend development, a rich understanding and experience in ML, and insights into the relevant business domain. Only with such capabilities can they select and implement frameworks that align with the fundamental "why" question, and continuously adjust the framework to accommodate the ever-changing business landscape and evolving capabilities of team members. However, finding such advanced talent is incredibly challenging, and with the increasing prevalence of MLOps, it's common for groups rich in backend experience to take the lead, with related ML practitioners passively offering their opinions.

Unfortunately, what often gets overlooked in this direction is that ultimately, MLOps revolves around the user. For example, when creating a mobile app for food delivery, much investment is made in UI/UX to maximize customer satisfaction and ultimately increase revenue. However, surprisingly, MLOps often fails to consider the convenience and satisfaction of the users during implementation. In other words, the implementing organization leverages its backend expertise, gathers feedback from users to build a system well, but due to subtle differences in direction and goals, users may experience limitations in usage, unable to provide feedback easily.

In fact, this is not just my personal observation. It's an issue that permeates through the book "Effective Data Infrastructure," which discusses Metaflow (an open-source MLOps tool developed by Netflix). While reading the book, I was struck by how vehemently it advocates a philosophy centered around the user (the individuals creating ML/DL models). It's designed to offer MLOps comprehensively to users with various levels of CS knowledge across different departments (including marketing, HR, and AI research) and aims to transform the company's core business itself into an ML-driven one through MLOps. Of course, this is just one example of a specific framework, and naturally, other companies/organizations should establish their own intrinsic goals and select the optimal framework accordingly.

To summarize... 1) MLOps practitioners are exceptional individuals, and 2) organizations should select frameworks that align with clear objectives. While there are currently numerous frameworks in competition, akin to how Caffe with its awkward interface eventually faded into obscurity due to the limitations of its static graph structure, I believe various MLOps frameworks will also fall by the wayside in the user-centric competition. Regarding 2), if the organization has the resources, they can establish a unicorn team capable of deriving goals and building a collective intelligence system, or if talent acquisition is challenging, they can actively leverage external vendor expert resources (such as AWS or GCP SA). Especially with the former, while it's a collective intelligence system, it requires backend personnel with a strong interest in ML and a proven track record of solving various ML modeling problems on their own without external guidance. Of course, such talent is naturally scarce in the market, so organizations must focus on nurturing these talents or hiring them with generous compensation if MLOps is deemed essential to their goals. (Jealous of those folks!)


(Sorce: [Linkedin post](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-kim-18431346/recent-activity/all/))