---
layout: post
title: The difference between DS and AI tasks
date: 2023-03-24 15:40:16
description: 
tags: AI DS ENG
categories: AI
---

Over the past few years, through the tumultuous journey of data science (DS) and deep learning (DL) modeling, an interesting observation has emerged. It pertains to how people perceive "models (algorithms)" when faced with problems.

Firstly, individuals who have accumulated experience/degrees in DS often view models as tools. It's akin to a driver choosing the appropriate car (model) for a given situation. Just as a driver doesn't need to be an automotive engineer to reach from point A to B in the shortest time, they focus on honing their driving skills with the chosen car. This group tends to rely heavily on their past successful experiences ("I've driven like this before!") because many problems they encounter are influenced more by factors other than the model's performance (e.g., data quality, stakeholder management). Those who excel in this group skillfully blend their experiences and tools to craft compelling analytical narratives that captivate stakeholders, while the opposite case often yields uninspiring stories due to either a shallow understanding of tools or delving too deep into them.

However, those in the DL field exhibit a different tendency. They predominantly view models not as means but as ends in themselves. Comparatively, it's like valuing the enhancement of a car's performance over being recognized as a skilled driver. Hence, even if one isn't a proficient driver, they believe improving the car's performance is (preferably) essential to reach from point A to B quickly. This group often relies heavily on past research records ("In this paper, we did it like this!") and shows a keen interest in research results/publishing, as there are instances where tasks that were once challenging suddenly become solvable with state-of-the-art (SOTA) papers. Those who excel in this group seamlessly integrate model objectives with business goals, creating enjoyable situations for themselves and their companies. Conversely, some fall into the trap of believing in the omnipotence of models, focusing solely on studying models and blaming external factors (data, management decisions, etc.) when things don't go as planned.

Based on this, let's summarize:

Unless one falls into the extreme spectrums of DS (e.g., BI) and DL (research-focused organizations), it's advisable to frequently ask oneself such questions: "Am I viewing models as tools or as ends in themselves for the work I'm currently doing?" Without clear guidance on this, it's surprisingly common to end up doing work for the sake of it. Looking back, I recall several projects where I confused this, digging myself into deep holes... If finding clarity is difficult, it's also good to ask colleagues or supervisors. I should ask again tomorrow...

It's desirable to extract the strengths of both groups and become someone who can digest them into my own for various problem situations (business jobs, research jobs, etc.). Currently, I feel fortunate to be influenced by excellent colleagues from both groups. Although, sometimes, being influenced by both sides might put me in a somewhat ambiguous position... But well, I believe that by continuing to enjoy and strive, it'll be a positive stimulus for growth.
(Sorce: [Linkedin post](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-kim-18431346/recent-activity/all/))